** Docuement to be read in half-screen

=== MU4MA016 - Algorithms and Datat Structures for Comp. Programming ===

== Chapter 1: Intro == 

= Algorithms = 

First example of an algorithm: Euclid's algorithm OG
	Goal: Find the gcd between two positive integers a and b

Propoerties of Algorithms:
	1. Correctness
		Proving algorithms correctness proceeds by showing that some
		form of invariant is preserved during the process. 
			In the case of Euclide's algorithms, the preserved
			invariant was the divisibility of c
	2. Complexity: Time and space complexity 
		Time complexity:
			How many operations/computations will an algorithm
			perform in order to provide an output in the worst
			scenario. 
		Space complexity:
			Measurment of the amount of local storage required
			by the algorithm to perform the operations; in
			addition to the storage of its inputs
		The two notions usually pull in opposite directions, as such 
		it turns out to be a matter of balancing both notions
		
		Note that for Euclide we have a trivial space complexity as
		all update is done directly to the variables, and there is a
		time complexity of O(max(a,b)) 
	3. Implementation

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Exos:

	Exo 1. Pf correctness of improved version 

	Exo 2. Pf. that time complexity is O(log(max(a,b)))

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

= Data Structures = 

ADS - Abstract Data Structure
	-> Abstract description of 
		1. What kind of data can be stored (possibly refering to
			 other ADS)
		2. What operations can be performed on this data

Examples of Data Stuctures inclued in the cours:
	arrays, stacks, queues, list & linked listed, hast tables, 
	trees, heaps and graphes

= Computer Programming =

We're going to study how to efficiently implement (good) algorithms. As such
there are two main options:

	1. Using high level language, offering a number of high native data
		structures and potentially also an interactive interpreter. 

		Ex. Python and CPhyton or Julia and its compiler JIT

	2. Using a lower level language, giving a close access to the 
		hardward or at least to the virtual memeory

		Thus allowing the code to be compiled into an efficeint 
		machine code due to compiler optimizations


LEARN F****ING C by yourselfs!

Key concept for the low level language and the hardware relation for 
this cours:
	
	The storage memory is presented as an operating system (OS), which
	can be understood as a large addressable 1D array, the so called
	VIRCTUAL MEMORY 
 
	The access time needed to bring back some data from Random-Access 
	Memory (RAM) to the Central Processing Unit (CPU) can be much larger
	than a typical time needed by the CPU to perform some computation.

	Physical levels (aka. caches) are introduced in between the CPU and
	the RAM to overcome such problems. These caches can be thought of as
	smaller but faster intermedian access memories.
	IMPORTANT: if data is put into a cache, then the "nearby" data is
			brought at the same time and thus it will be 
			available, provided that our successive access to 
			memory is sufficiently local.

= Understanding Locality = 

	Typical example: Matrix Multiplication A*B












































